---
layout: post
author: Silas
title: Beginnings of a new project...
categories: Laptop
---

## A bit of background

I somewhat recently got my hands on an old Thinkpad R61 (2007 is not that old sorry to all the boomers reading :P) and was very impressed by the build quality of this thing. The keyboard is chunky with a clunky thunk, the casing feels like it could withstand anything (to open it you need to slide a lock for petes sake) and it even comes with modem capabilities!! Only thing it lacked was a usable amount of memory, compatability with modern linux DEs and working battery. The latter being fixable and the former two limiting its usability. 

What i really wanted to be able to do was upgrade the brains of this laptop to something modern, and turn it into a sleeper build.

## Other work

A little bit of digging around i found this [replacement motherboard](https://www.xyte.ch/t700-crowdfunding/) by XY tech/Hope, but between spotty communication and project being completed/sold out this option was out of the window.  

## LattePanda enters the equation. 

Around this time i came across Ben makes everything's video [Building a LattePanda Mu Cyberdeck](https://youtu.be/o00P7wHbd2c?si=Uj9k3dJWy2TDP5Qx), which introduced me to the LattePanda Mu, a very powerful compute module. Instanstly intrigued, i went to their website, where i found they were running a design challenge, and sponsoring projects with an evaluation kit and a PCB fab voucher. I signed up on the spot and within a couple of weeks had on my hands everything i needed to make exactly what i had dreamed of. 

## Where from here?

Well at the time of writing this im in the middle of uni exam season, so gotta get that outta the way. Im also thinking about features i want in this system, and how to work around the specs of the Mu. So far ive got these following features;
 - Full featured USB-C (3.2 SuperSpeed, DisplayPort alt mode, Sinking capabilities to power & charge the laptop and ideally enough sourcing capabilites to be able to run my solding iron or other high power devices)
 - A set of galvanically isolated USB ports
 - Compatability with old peripherals (Keyboard, Touchpad, Original display)
 - Adding to the previous point, ability to upgrade the display to a modern eDP panel
 - Repurposing the Ultrabay (CD drive) to a PCie module slot, for future expansion ideas (SDR, storage, maybe even graphics card???)
 - Some sort of serial or other port that will be handy in future embedded dev adventures
 - And as a stretch goal i think i would like to make use of the docking capabilites 